Shuvam Banerjee
shuvambanerjee017@gmail.com | https://www.linkedin.com/in/shuvam-banerjee/
Motivated engineer with a passion for programming, automation, and mathematics. Proven track record
in reducing manual work through scripting and full-stack development. Quick to adapt, skilled at
debugging large codebases, and driven by the potential of AI to simplify lives. Strong believer in
collaboration and clear communication to build impactful solutions.
SKILLS
Programming Languages: Python, C++, SQL, Bash
Tools & Platforms: Linux, Git, GitHub, VCS, Perforce, SQLite
Web Development: Full stack web development, HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Data & AI: Data Structures and Algorithms, Data Science, Data Analysis, Machine Learning modules
Soft Skills: Communication, Teamwork, Tenacity
EXPERIENCE
CAD Engineer Feb 2023 - Present
Micron Technology, Inc., Hyderabad
● Directed four high-impact projects, optimizing layout, verification, packaging and design
workflows – 60 % reduction in manual effort and turnaround time
● Led agile execution using Scrum and Jira, enhancing chip tapeout protocols and delivering a
robust, user-centric dashboard through full-stack development
● Facilitated cross-departmental presentations and demos, driving alignment, knowledge
exchange, and effective resolution of complex technical challenges
Associate CAD Engineer Jul 2021 - Jan 2023
Micron Technology, Inc., Hyderabad
• Collaborated with cross-functional teams and clients, conducting in-depth research and strategic
discussions to proactively resolve operational challenges
• Implemented automation using Test-Driven Development (TDD), delivering scalable solutions for
packaging, design, and verification—reducing manual effort from days to minutes
• Enhanced workflow efficiency by developing agile scripts and tools that accelerated layout and
chip verification processes, ensuring reliability and speed
• Provided expert support on automation and process optimization, leveraging JIRA to streamline
issue resolution and foster cohesive team collaboration
Software Development Intern May 2019 - Jul 2019
Department of Planning and Statistics, Government of West Bengal, Kolkata
● Developed a user-centric software tool with an intuitive GUI to compute Gini coefficients and
coefficients of variation, enhancing analytical precision for data-driven decision-making.
● Conducted comprehensive research on economic topics, integrating insights from industry
reports to align software functionality with strategic objectives and market dynamics.
● Delivered end-to-end support and training, ensuring smooth adoption and effective utilization of
the tool, empowering teams to streamline workflows and significantly reduce manual effort.
EDUCATION
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) - Electrical and Electronics Engineering Aug 2017 - Jul 2021
Birla Institute of Technology and Science, Pilani, Hyderabad
Minor Degree in Data Science
HONORS & AWARDS
Culture Champion 2024
Micron Technology, Inc.
Awarded for exceptional teamwork, tenacity and problem solving for developing methodology flow for
packaging team in Micron.
Recognized for execution 2022
Micron Technology, Inc.
Recognized by Director for tenaciously collaborating with teams across company to help define new
workflows and provided timely support to ramp up production.